The original Human Torch was created in the 1930's by Carl Burgos for Atlas Comics first issue, titled "Marvel Comics".

Not to be confused with the more modern version of the Fantastic Four, this Human Torch was an android, a mechanical being created by Professor Horton in hopes of creating a more perfect human. He failed in his efforts. Not only did his creation burst into flame when exposed to oxygen, but he rebelled against his creator, not wanting to become a slave to someone who cared about recognition more than his "child's" own well-being. The public, fearing that he would escape, sealed the Torch in concrete. He escaped due to a convenient crack that let oxygen seep in. New York burned. It was a long while before the Torch learned to control his flame, but when he did, he vowed to never use it to do evil.

He would join other heroes as war broke out in Europe, and later in the Pacific, to fight the Axis powers. Within a year, he'd acquired a young partner, Thomas "Toro" Raymond. Toro was the mutant son of two nuclear scientists whose exposure to radiation gave him the ability to control fire. He'd also joined the police force as part of his "human cover" under the name Jim Hammond. He would later drop the human name and serve the police force outright as the Human Torch, fighting villians and his off and on again foe, Namor, the Sub-Mariner.

In the 1950's, the Human Torch was revived and killed off in a short span of time as an atomic bomb test awoke him from his deactivation sleep in the Mojave, only to find that Toro had been captured by the Soviets and brainwashed. He was able to bring Toro back around, but the nuclear bomb had effected his powers. They were far more powerful than they once had been, and much more unstable. Fearing that he would become a danger to those around him, the Torch flew back out into the desert and went nova, using up all his reserve energy and effectively deactivating himself.

He was found once by the Fantastic Four, reactivated, then shut down once again by the crazed android Qausimodo's Destructo-Eye when he refused to kill the heroes.

He would be revived one final time in Byne's Avengers West Coast by the Scarlet Witch, who was searching for answers about her husband, the Vision, and Ann Raymond's husband, Tom (Toro). He served the Avengers for many issues before losing his powers to save the former superheroine, Spitfire, in the pages of "Namor". His powers gone, he decided to settle down with Ann Raymond.

He would appear later as the CEO of Oracle, Inc., a company run by Prince Namor. From there, he served as "boss" to the mercenary group Heroes for Hire. When the group disbanded, he went off on his own, reappearing again as the head of another superteam - the V-Batallion.