{{db-a10|article=Blockbuster (DC Comics)}}
Blockbuster (DC Comics)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Harold "Harry" Meachum is a fictional character, a comic book villain in the Marvel Comics Universe, and is a sinister businessman, primarily a foe of [[Iron Fist]].


Contents  [hide] 
1 Fictional character biography

Fictional character biography [edit]

Harold Meachum was the business partner of Wendell Rand, father of Daniel (who would later become Iron Fist) in human reproduction. When travelling with his business partner and his young family to uncover what would be a major discovery in business, they came across [[K'un L'un]], a stronghold of a colony of humanoid aliens whose spaceship crashed in a pocket dimension that intersects with Earth. Wendell saved the life of the city's ruler, Lord Tuan, and was adopted as Tuan's son. However, Wendell eventually left K'un L'un and became a wealthy entrepreneur in the United States. He married socialite Heather Duncan and had a child, Daniel. When Daniel was nine, Wendell organized an expedition to again seek out K'un L'un, taking his wife Heather, his business partner Harold Meachum, and Daniel. During the journey up the mountain, Daniel slipped off the path, his tie-rope taking his mother and father with him. Meachum, who also loved Heather, forced Wendell to plunge to his death but offered to rescue Heather and Daniel. She rejected his help, preferring to journey without him or die.

Blockbuster as he appears in Impulse #8/Underworld Unleashed #1 (November 1995).
Publication information
Publisher	DC Comics
First appearance	Starman #9 (April 1989)
Created by	Roger Stern
Tom Lyle
In-story information
Alter ego	Roland Desmond
Team affiliations	Underground Society
Black Lantern Corps
Abilities	Genius-level intellect
Superhuman strength and stamina
Roland Desmond became the second Blockbuster after a severe illness forced him to be treated with experimental steroids. Like his brother Mark, Roland became a child-minded super-strong monster. He ran wild in the Southwest, but Batman and Starman (Will Payton) brought his rampage to an end.[3][4]
Desmond became obsessed with elevating himself greatly above his debilitated intellect. A pact with the demon Neron granted him a genius-level intellect, and Desmond embarked once more on a career of crime and destruction. He began his revived criminal career by causing chaos in the town of Manchester, although his schemes were foiled by the speedster Impulse.
Desmond then moved to his mother's home town of Blüdhaven. He forced the crime lord Angel Marin out of power and took over the city's criminal rackets. Roland's plan was to build a criminal empire in the 'Haven, that would eventually enable him to extend his dominion over Gotham, Star City, Metropolis, and New York's underworlds. For that purpose, he bought the corrupt elements of the city's police department, most notably the Police Chief Redhorn and Inspector Dudley "Deadly" Soames.
Despite his swift and vicious consolidation of power, Blockbuster's hold on Blüdhaven's organized crime was nevertheless weakened by the intervention of the city's new protector, Nightwing (Dick Grayson, the former Robin), who, with Oracle's help, foiled Desmond's plans at every turn. Oracle often removes money from Blockbuster's accounts and he has a man working to stop and find Oracle, named Vogel.[5]
Desmond's primary goal became the elimination of the young vigilante. He placed a contract on Nightwing's life, employing the services of several assassins, including Lady Vic, Stallion, Brutale, the Trigger Twins, and Shrike.
As a further result of his initial transformation, Desmond later developed albinism and a heart defect. He was restored to (comparative) health by a heart transplant from one of the talking apes of Gorilla City, and was consolidating his control over Blüdhaven and contemplating a takeover of Gotham City, when he was killed by the new Tarantula, Catalina Flores.[6]
As part of the Blackest Night event, Roland's corpse is reanimated by a black power ring and recruited to the Black Lantern Corps in Blackest Night: Batman #1 (October 2009).
Blockbuster III [edit]
Lex Luthor created a new Blockbuster in the pages of the miniseries event 52 to serve as an opponent of his manufactured hero team, Infinity, Inc.
Little is revealed about this Blockbuster, save for the fact that Luthor possesses some measure of control of his actions and level of strength. Luthor also comments that he is stronger than either of the two previous Blockbusters. This brute's cognitive abilities and appearance are very similar to the original. Blockbuster, with controlled interference from Lex Luthor, kills the superhero Trajectory.
A Blockbuster appears amongst the villains exiled to an alien world in Salvation Run. In issue #3, it is revealed to be a disguised Martian Manhunter.
Female Blockbuster [edit]
A newer, female Blockbuster appears in the swamps of Louisiana and fights Mon-El in Superman #689 (August 2009).
Powers and abilities [edit]

All Blockbusters have superhuman strength, stamina, and endurance. They also have a high degree of resistance to physical and energy attacks.
After selling his soul to Neron, Roland Desmond gained super intelligence.
In other media [edit]

Television [edit]
Blockbuster (Mark Desmond) was first seen in the Justice League Unlimited episode "Kid's Stuff" voiced by Dee Bradley Baker. He, Cheetah, Copperhead, and KGBeast were robbing a gold vault. Blockbuster was also a member of the Secret Society in the series."I am Legion" However, after siding against Lex Luthor during the mutiny in favor of Gorilla Grodd, "Alive" he was frozen by Killer Frost and blown up by Darkseid, along with the other mutineers.
Mark Desmond appears on The Batman episode "Meltdown" voiced by Kevin Michael Richardson. Desmond is a scientist working for Wayne Enterprises who is in charge of Ethan Bennett's (Clayface) parole agreement to not use his shapeshifting powers. Unlike the comics, he is African-American.
The Mark Desmond version of Blockbuster appears in the Batman: The Brave and the Bold episode "Death Race to Oblivion!", with Mark Desmond voiced by James Arnold Taylor and Blockbuster voiced by Kevin Michael Richardson. Batman confronts evil child genius Desmond (who Batman has been keeping an eye on since he stole some chemicals from S.T.A.R. Labs) at a museum with a plot to steal a diamond called the Star of Bialya. The crowd objects to Batman grabbing Desmond until the boy drinks the serum that transforms him into Blockbuster. As Blockbuster, he subdues Batman. When Billy Batson steps forth, Blockbuster grabs him. When Blockbuster asks Billy if he has any last words, he shouts "Shazam!" and transforms into Captain Marvel, who manages to defeat Blockbuster. In "Night of the Batmen," Blockbuster assists Bane, Killer Croc, and Solomon Grundy in stealing a statue only to be thwarted by Captain Marvel dressed as Batman.


Blockbuster as seen in Young Justice.
The Mark Desmond version of Blockbuster first appears in the two-part Young Justice episode "Independence Day", with Mark Desmond voiced by René Auberjonois. This version of Blockbuster is very different in appearance to any of his comic book incarnations, having purposefully been redesigned as it was felt the original version was too similar to the Hulk.[7] His transformation in the series involves his "Blockbuster" form ripping through his human skin. He is shown as a senior member of Project Cadmus who takes his orders directly from the Light and uses the Blockbuster serum in order to combat Robin, Kid Flash, Aqualad and Superboy. The serum to take this form seems to have decreased his intelligence as Aqualad said "I doubt he is planning anything anymore". He is defeated by the four by the time the Justice League arrived and is taken away by some of the Justice League members. In "Terrors," Blockbuster was seen as an inmate at Belle Reve and was acting as muscle for Icicle Sr. alongside Mammoth. He and Mammoth were defeated by Superboy. In "Ususal Suspects," Blockbuster joins Lex Luthor, Queen Bee, Sportsmaster, and Bane into meeting with Superboy, Miss Martian, and Artemis. During the fight between the young heroes and the assembled villains, Lex Luthor mentioned that Dr. Desmond wasn't able to add the other programs to control Superboy and blamed Dr. Desmond for it. Superboy manages to defeat Blockbuster.
Film [edit]
Blockbuster is reportedly featured in David S. Goyer's script for an upcoming Green Arrow film project entitled Super Max, supposedly as one of the primary antagonists.[8]
Video Games [edit]
Blockbuster will appear as a boss in the upcoming video game Young Justice: Legacy.