'''Mister X''' is a [[supervillain]] introduced in [[Wolverine (comics)|Wolverine]] #159.  His [[henchmen]] include T & A, and Blok.     
Overview:

Little is known about the man known only as Mister X, save for the fact that he is an extremely wealthy businessman who has demonstrated a psychological addiction to killing.  As a young boy, he committed several attrocious murders, those of his pet dog, his mother, and his father in an oven.  This act gave X a type of euphoric high, a feeling as if this was truly what life was about.  Over the years, X would commit dozens, possibly even hundreds of murders that would range from homeless drifters to lovers.  Using his family's fortune, X traveled throughout the world and studied under some of the finest martial artists in the world, seeking to become a perfect killing machine.  After he learned all he could from each of his teachers, X would engage them in single combat and would kill them.  The thrill of killing an opponent in hand to hand combat provided him with a rush that he'd never dreamed of and X, while keeping a public image of a handsome, single, wealthy socialite, would seek out the strongest, fastest, most skilled, and most durable opponents he could possibly find in order to be declared as simply the finest fighter on the planet.  After X would kill one of his opponents, he would cut a small scar somewhere onto his body, similar to the way gunfighters in the Old West are often depicted doing with the handle of their firearms.  By the time he first encountered Wolverine, X's torso, at least, was covered with hundreds of small scars, indicating his victims over the years.  Their first encounter proved to be disasterous for Wolverine as Mister X defeated him with no trouble at all, leaving Wolverine lying unconcsious in a small puddle of his own blood.  Mister X and Wolverine engaged one another twice more, once only a day after Wolverine's first defeat, and again at a special tournament called Bloodsport, held in the city of Madripoor and included many superhuman fighters.  X's performance against Wolverine, in these two battles, was not nearly as impressive as his first.  Wolverine had slipped into a berserker rage during his second battle with X, in this state of mind Wolverine's feral instincts seem to take over and his concsious mind shuts down, and would have killed X had it not been for the interference of one of X's bodyguards.  Their third and final battle, at the Bloodsport tournament, went similarly.  In the beginning, X was dominating Wolverine much as he had done in the fight.  X's skills were so incredible that it seemed as if he knew what his opponent planned to do even before they did.  Wolverine theorized that X could have telepathic abilities that enable him to predict his opponent's moves, which would give him an almost unbeatable edge and would explain the sheer perfection of his moves and countermoves.  Wolverine willingly allowed himself to slip into a berserker rage and the tide quickly turned and while he technically won the tournament, he would have been killed had  their battle not been interfered with.  Mister X and Wolverine have not crossed paths since.

Superhuman Powers:

Mister X possesses minor telepathic abilities that he is able to use in order to predict the fighting moves of any opponent he engages.  These abilities allow him to "see" what his opponent will do to the point that he is already several steps ahead of them.  While this cannot be verified, X appears to possess certain physical abilities that could be at superhuman levels.  He possesses sufficient strength to be able to knock Wolverine unconcious with only a few punches.  He may also possess some degree of enhanced resistance to injury, since his feet and fists remained undamaged when hitting Wolverine's Adamantium laced skull.  X also has great natural agility and reaction time, possibly into the "Enhanced Human" range.  Once again, these physical abilities can't be confirmed, but at the very least, X is at the pinacle of human conditioning on a physical level comparable to that of Captain America.
{{comics-stub}}
[[Category:Marvel Comics supervillains]]