The '''Green Goblin''' is a [[Marvel Comics]] [[supervillain]] who is the greatest enemy of [[Spider-Man]].

The original Goblin was Norman Osborn, a corrupt industrialist who cofounded a major technology firm with partner, Dr. Mendel Stromm.  To seize total control, Osborn has Stromm framed for embezzlement and then searched his possessions, discovering a experimental intelligence enhancement formula.  When Osborn attempted to create the serum, it turned green and exploded in his face.  The accident changed Osborn, greatly increasing his intelligence and strength, but also drove him insane.

In his new madness, Osborn takes on the bizarre identity of the Green Goblin with the goal of becoming the Boss of organized crime.  This was intended to be complemented by defeating Spider-Man, a notorious, but relatively low powered opponent whom he was confident he could defeat to enhance his reputation.  To this end, Osborn created a personal flying device, called a flying broomstick which evolved into his Goblin Glider and personal weapons like grenades shaped as pumpkins, bladed projectile weapons called razorbats and glove blasters which fired energy blasts from his fingers.  Thus equipped, Osborn set out to achieve his twin goals, only to be frustrated at every turn by Spider-Man.

Frustrated, Osborn decided to lie low until he was sure his enemy's guard was down.  When he was ready, Osborn arranged to have Spider-Man exposed to a special gas designed to suppress his spider sense.  With that done, Goblin shadowed him until he learned Spidey's real name identity of Peter Parker and then captured him.  In turn, Osborn revealed his own identity to Peter and ranted about his origin and his intentions on killing his greatest enemy.  Releasing Peter to do that, they battled and Peter defeated him with Osborn losing his memory and had his costume destroyed by Spider-Man to eliminate his menace.

For a long while, the Goblin personality periodically re-emerged in Osborn to bedevil Spider-Man, only to be forced down in turn when he was defeated.  Finally, the Goblin took control one final time and threatened Spider-Man's love, [[Gwen Stacy]] by kidnapping her and taking her to the George Washington Bridge.  In the resulting battle, The Goblin let Gwen fall and Spider-Man's attempt to save her inadvertently killed her.  With blood in his eyes, Spider-Man pursued The Goblin for revenge, but managed to control himself after defeating him in battle.  In one final attempt to kill him, The Goblin tried to spear Spider-Man with his remote control glider, only to find himself impaled when Spider-Man avoided the attack.

As it turned out, Norman's son and Peter's friend, [[Harry Osborn]] saw the battle and took pains to cover up his father's Goblin identity and manner of death.  Already mentally weakened with a serious bout with narcotics, he blamed Spider-Man for his father's death and upon learning Peter's identity from his father's records, planned his revenge as the second Green Goblin.  Peter managed to subdue him in battle that left Harry with amnesia and under the medical care of Dr. Barton Hamilton.  Unfortunately, his therapy with Harry revealed the secrets of the Goblin which gave him the ambition of gaining the same power the Osborns had as the third Green Goblin.  Eventually, the underpowered amateur was killed and the Goblin menace was buried yet again.

Later, fashion designer Roderick Kingsley discovered an abandoned secret lair of Norman Osborns and set about to discover the rest of Osborn's equipment and records.  With much of that accomplished, Kingsley created a variant of the Goblin identity as the [[Hobgoblin]] who would plague Spider-Man for months while manipulating innocents to hide his identity.

Eventually, Harry's insanity relapsed and he became the Green Goblin again in numerous occasions until he died from the side effects of the Goblin serum.

Finally, it was revealed that Norman Osborn is still alive and is determined to plague Spider-Man's life still more, but with a more subtle approach.

While the Green Goblin has appeared numerous times in the various animated series, the first live action appearance was in the acclaimed blockbuster feature film with [[Willeim Dafoe]] as Norman Osborn.