{{cleanup-date|November 2005}}

ORIGIN: The few glimpses we have seen into the mysterious Tally Man's
past reveal the tragic childhood of a boy who loved his mother. 
Starving and living in rags, the boy who was to become the Tally Man lived,
with his mother and sister, in constant fear. His father had borrowed a
large sum of money many years before. After he died, a cruel money collector
continued to collect his weekly fee from the deceased 
man's wife. Terrorizing her, this wicked man did not care whether the woman's 
children starved, as long as he got his money. The boy begged his mother not
to pay, but she tearfully replied, "Everybody has to pay the tally
man." One night, when the collector came, the mother could not afford to pay
him the whole sum because she bought a doll for her daughter. The tally man
proceeded to viciously beat her. Filled with rage, the 
young son of the woman, attacked and brutally killed the money collector with
a fireplace poker. The twelve-year old boy was arrested for murder,
and treated horribly by the others in the boy's prison, who called him a
"mama's boy." He was just a boy who loved his mother. He wasn't bad.
He wasn't crazy. They made him that way. After his 
release, the boy returned home. The final image of his family was 
eternally burned into his mind. He discovered his sister had died of
starvation, and found his mother hanging from a noose. The young man
snapped in that instant. Years later a figure, dressed in the strange
dark robes of an old-fashioned tax collector, emerged. He called 
himself the Tally Man. Hired by the underworld to "collect" on debts owed,
his fee was not money, but human lives. It is unknown at this
time how or why the boy decided to adopt the personae of that which brought
about the destruction of his family. With each debt he collects, with
each person he kills, the Tally Man witnesses in his mind, the horrible
circumstances which led to his current state. When Tally 
Man attempted to collect the 'debt' owed by Batman, he was defeated by
the the new Batman (Azrael). He returned to claim his debt again,
and the second time he was defeated by Dick Grayson (who was filling in 
for Bruce Wayne as Batman

{{comics-stub}}